This folder contains some 3D printable objects useful in making the `ubxlib` test farm nice and neat.  All were originally designed in Blender, hence the original `.blend` file is included, but exported `.stl` files are also included for all of the objects so that they can simply be printed on an FDM printer in PLA, lowest resoultion, 10% in-fill.

- `ubxlib_box` is a wiring box, into which a metal bus-bar can be inserted, to allow neat wiring-up of chunky mains 12V DC power blocks, switched by a KMTronic box, to multiple DC power cables.  The writing on the outside of the box won't come out (the resolution of the printer will be too low) and the little poles in the middle of the box will likely snap off, but neither are required.  Supports will likely be needed when printing the box part.  Use four small self-tappers to screw the top down on the box.
- `ubxlib_stand` is a platform that a Raspberry Pi can sit underneath and the attached u-blox boards can sit on top.  It comes in two widths, the wider one being right for a cellular EVK.  It also comes in two parts: the bit that sits over the Raspberry Pi and an extension which sits out front; the extension may or may not be required, depending on how much gubbins a test instance has.  The two parts are forced together with a soft-jawed vice or a strip of wood to protect the plastic and a hammer.  You might place a sheet of velcro loop on top of the stand and attach velcro hook pads to the underside of the boards to hold them in place.